
			S T I C K Y   W I C K E T  v2.52
 
  CONTENTS

  1) Intoduction
  2) Features
  3) Copyright
  4) Disclaimer
  5) Distribution
  6) What files should be in this distribution
  7) Game history - including what's new in this version
  8) Compatibility
  9) Installing and running the game
 10) The Game - "Sticky Wicket"
    i) Menu
   ii) Team Selection
  iii) Playing Sticky Wicket
   iv) If you elect to bat or are put into bat
    v) If you elect to field or are put into field
   vi) The Sticky Cup
 11) Quiting the game
 12) Changing the speed
 13) Changing the difficultly
 14) Troubleshooting / known bugs
 15) How to add new teams
 16) Information on changing player data
 17) Information for registered users
 18) World Cup Cricket - another cricket game by Mark Carter
 19) The Sticky Wicket & World Cup Cricket website and Yahoo! Group
 20) Author contact details

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  1) Intoduction
  --------------  
   Sticky Wicket is a freeware DOS cricket game for the PC.

   Sticky Wicket is based on one-day matches in both league and cup
   competitions played between english county teams. This is one of the very
   few cricket games to combine strategy and statistics with interactive match
   action. Matches are shown through a birds-eye view of the field where ball
   movement, fielding and batsmen running can be followed. By careful team
   selections, choosing field placings, rotating bowlers, changing batting
   order and deciding when batsmen run, you aim to win the league and cup
   trophies.

   Sticky Wicket is the first of two cricket games I have written for the PC.
   The other is called World Cup Cricket and is based on international one-day
   tournaments.


  2) Features
  ----------- 
   * Database of 288 players, 18 teams each with career statistics and batting
     and bowling abilities
   * 8 teams take part in any season
   * Possible to add extra teams (up to 36 in total) to the 18 already present
   * Seasonal and career averages
   * Unlimited number of seasons
   * Each season consists of the Sunday League and Sticky Cup competitions
   * Sunday League consists of seven 40-over matches including league table,
     fixture list and results service each week
   * 40 over Sticky Cup competition involving all 8 teams
   * Edited highlights of the game including action shots, LBWs, run outs etc
   * Match interactivity - when to run, who to bowl, batting order, field
     placings etc
   * Umpire decisions in response to appeals
   * Team selection - choose 11 from 16 before each match
   * 5 different built-in field settings
   * Save / restore facility - up to 8 different save positions
   * Career page showing your teams records and comparisons with other teams
   * 2-player matches between any 2 teams of your choice

   Please note:
   * The squads are accurate as of the end of the 1996 season
   * The career averages stored in the data files are in fact the final 1996
     Sunday League averages
 

  3) Copyright
  ------------
   Sticky Wicket is written and copyright by Mark Carter. No parts of this
   program may be altered by any means (this includes editing, reprogramming,
   crunching, resourceing etc.), except archiving.


  4) Disclaimer
  -------------
   The author is in no way liable for any changes made to any part of the
   program, or consequences thereof as he is in no way liable for damages or
   loss of data directly or indirectly caused by this software.


  5) Distribution
  ---------------
   Profits may not be made by distributing this piece of software - only a
   nominal fee may be charged to cover postage, packing, materials etc. All
   files may be copied so long as they are copied in their entirety and are not
   seperated from each other. The files may be compressed into a .ZIP format (I
   recommend naming the zip file wcc262.zip) in which case the directory
   structure should be preserved.


  6) What files should be in this distribution
  --------------------------------------------
   You should find the following files:
   [main directory]
	sw      .bat	- Run this to start the game!
	sw      .dat	- Data file - general
	sw      .txt	- Main documentation
	sw_game .exe	- Part of the actual game engine
	sw_teams.dat    - Data file - available teams to be used
	["src\" subdirectory] - Source code
		sw_game.bas
		sw_game.mak
		sw_util.bas
	["sw_teams\" subdirectory] - Team data files
		derbyshi.dat
		durham.dat
		essex.dat
		glamorga.dat
		gloucest.dat
		hampshir.dat
		kent.dat
		lancashi.dat
		leiceste.dat
		middlese.dat
		northamp.dat
		nottingh.dat
		somerset.dat
		surrey.dat
		sussex.dat
		warwicks.dat
		worceste.dat
		yorkshir.dat

   When you save your position, a file called "SW_SAVES.DAT" is created in the
   main directory and a subdirectory called "SW_SAVES" is also created. The
   saved position is stored in the "SW_SAVES\" subdirectory in a file called
   "SLOTX.SAV" where X is a number from 1 to 8 depending on which slot you
   used.


  7) Game history - including what's new in this version
  ------------------------------------------------------
   October 1991		- Version 2.00 
	* First release into the shareware market

   February 1993	- Version 2.20 
	* Sorry, forgot to keep track of the changes!

   March 1993		- Version 2.25
	* Games are now more realistic.  Less likely to get matches with
	  ridiculously few dismissals/runs etc
	* A very strange bug where the '8' key on the numeric key pad did not
	  work has now been located and corrected
	* A few other bug fixes

   8th April 1995	- Version 2.26
	* Updated documentation to include e-mail addresses and registration
	  fees/procedures for overseas users

   15th September 1996	- Version 2.50
	* New "key file" registration system. See below for more details
	* New save/restore position page - can now have up to 8 different
	  saved positions (registered version only)
	* Improved method for getting game to run at correct speed
	* New quit facility - ability to quit at ANY moment in the game
	* Career averages now updated after every match
	* New option to enable/disable sound
	* Your team's players are now highlighted in the combined averages
	* Restructured how the data files are organised. Now its possible to
	  add new teams (up to 36 in total) to the 18 teams already present
	* Data files for ALL 18 county teams now included with up-to-date
	  squads
	* New disk error handling routines
	* New page to change which 8 teams are to be used as default
	  (registered version only)
	* Cleaned up the entire code - this was the hardest bit!
	* Improved Career page - the captain comparison is now more variable
	* Improved the Sticky Cup - can now see the results/fixtures of the
	  other matches
	* Opposition now varies its team selection
	* 2-Player game is now incorporated in the main game. Simply press P
	  when you select which team to take charge of (registered version
	  only)
	* Vaslty improved on-disk documentation - now over twice the size!
	* A few minor bug fixes
	* New facility to print registration form within the game (shareware
	  version only)

   23rd August 2001 	- Version 2.51
	* Game is now freeware and so a default key file is included in
          the distribution to unlock all features
	* Updated documentation with new contact details and removed
	  references to registration etc

   24th November 2002 	- Version 2.52
	* Added the source code! (Quick Basic 4.5 compatible)
	* Removed chunks of redundant code from the program concerning
	  shareware and key file logic
	* Removed the key file from the distribution as it is no longer used
	* Completely reorganised sw.txt into a more logical format.
	  Ammended contact details, website address and added a link to the
	  new Yahoo! discussion group. Also added sections on troubleshooting,
	  compatibility and installation
	* Improved error handling


  8) Compatibility
  ----------------
   This game should work on any IBM compatible PC with EGA or better
   graphics card and at least 512K of RAM. This should be ok for any PC
   purchased after 1990!

   The game runs fine under all versions of Windows (from 3.x onwards) as well
   as the later versions of DOS.


  9) Installing and running the game
  ----------------------------------
   Chances are you will have just unzipped a file called sw252.zip and are
   ready to run the game straight away.

   If not, then you will need something like WinZip (if running from Windows)
   or PKUnzip (if running from DOS). Please refer to the relevant documentation
   to find out how to extract the files from the zip file and remember to
   preserve the directory structure when extracting.

   It is good to check that when you unzipped the files they appear as
   described in the "What files should be in this distribution" section in this
   document. If not, then you will need to fix this!

   To start the game from DOS, change to the directory where sw.bat is
   stored and then type "sw".

   To start the game from Windows, just double-click on the sw.bat icon.

   You should be greeted by the title page followed by a list of 8 teams.
   Using the 'up' and 'down' cursor keys change the highlighted team to the one
   that you wish to control and then press "space". You will then be presented
   with the Main Menu page.


 10) The Game - "Sticky Wicket"
 ------------------------------
   i)  Menu
    By pressing any number from 1-7 you will be able to access the option you
    want. The fixture list and league table are self-explanatory , press any
    key to return to the menu. The averages section begins with a list of the 8
    teams plus an option to view the top averages combining all teams together.
    Note, that seasonal averages are not available in the Week 1 because no
    matches have been played!

  ii) Team selection
  
    Naturally for those who wish to get 'stuck in' the first 11 players will be
    automatically selected. However, you can select eleven of your choice by
    pressing 2 in the main menu. The criteria for selection is that you can
    only have 1 wicket keeper, 5 bowlers and 5 other players. Until this is
    achieved you will be unable to return to the main menu by pressing 'e'.

    Wicket Keepers - There are 2 wicket keepers per team. One must play in
    that role but there is nothing to stop you playing the other as a
    batsman. To select, use the highlight bar to move to the player by using
    the cursor keys and press 'w'. The player name should become green.

    Bowlers - There are approx. 8 bowlers per team. To select use the
    highlight to move to the player and press 'b'. The computer will not allow
    a bowler with 0 (Zero) bowling ability to be selected.

    Batsmen - Use highlight bar as above and press 'o' to select any player
    for the sole purpose of batting.
  
    The following qualities (On a scale of zero to ten) act as a guide to
    which players should be selected and gives a brief statement of their
    preferred positions.

    Fitness - This declines rapidly for bowlers, less so for batsmen. To
    counter this you should make regular alterations to the side enabling the
    players to recouperate. Over-use of players makes them become stale and
    will affect their performance (ie a player of 1 (one) fitness is useless.)

    Ability - This changes from season to season unlike fitness which varies
    every game. It is determined by the player's personnal success over the
    season. Bowling and Batting figures are given. The higher the value the
    more likely he is to be successful when wielding the bat or bowling,
    fitness permitting.

    Form - This changes from match to match and is an indication of the players
    current form. High values will mean he is very confident and has been
    successful with the bat or ball. A loss in form may result in poor
    performances.

 iii) Playing Sticky Wicket

    Pressing '1' in the main menu will take you to the next match.
    The opposition and your teams strengths and weaknesses are compared. If
    your fitness is significantly low the likelyhood of catches being dropped,
    fielder mistakes and a general lethargic performance overall are increased.
    Alterations should be made when you next retun to the main menu.
    A coin is tossed and the opposition will inform you of its intention to bat
    or field. If it wins, press 'space' to continue. If you win use 'b' to bat
    or 'f' to field.

  iv) If you elect or are put into bat
  
    Select your two openers. They should be chosen to see off the new ball to
    enable the middle order to hit out. Openers are specialist batsmen and by
    looking at player qualities when choosing the team you can see which
    normally do the job. Enter the batsman number and press return.
    Edited Highlights will be displayed.... Make sure your finger is poised
    over the 'r' button. If the ball doesn't cross the boundary as a 4 or 6 it
    will be fielded by the opposition. By pressing 'r' will enable your batsmen
    to run, you must decide if it is safe to do so. Failure to keep the score-
    board ticking over by taking quick runs will reduce the overall team
    score. However, run outs can be equally disasterous. Even if you are
    outside the crease there is still a possibility that the opposition fielder
    will miss the stumps. If a decision is close the umpire will be called
    upon to adjudicate. Unfortunately this is open to human error and may be
    dubious, but that's cricket!


   v) If you elect to field or are put into field
  
    Utilising your bowlers to the optinum performance is an acquired skill.
    With practise you will discover which can conserve runs and which will take
    wickets. When in the scorecard (ie at fall of Wicket or at the end of each
    over) by pressing 'f' you will be able to select from five fields -
    orthodox, defensive, attacking, highly attacking and unorthodox, each with
    their own merits. The first 10 overs with the new ball and the last are
    the most critical. Bowlers are restricted to 8 overs, none of which can be
    bowled consecutively. If you are unable to select a particular bowler,
    or the computer automatically selects someone else, this is to enable the
    above rules for bowling to apply. This can be remedied by trying another
    bowler who hasn't completed his spell.

    The result of your match will be displayed as will any other results in
    the week (including high scores and best bowling figures). After seven
    league matches the final table will be shown.

  vi) The Sticky Cup

    If you are unsuccessful in the league, you can remedy your situation by
    doing well in the Sticky Wicket cup, hopefully progress on to the final.
    All 8 teams take part in this tournament which begins at the quarter final
    stage. Summaries of every match are automatically shown after each round.
    On completion of the cup you can have one final glance at the averages.

    All league and cup wins are recorded for posterity under career records in
    the menu, as are the successes of your nearest rivals in the Hall of Fame.
    Will you climb to the heights of W.G Grace ?

 
 11) Quiting the game
 --------------------
   You can exit the game at any time by pressing the function key F9.


 12) Changing the speed
 ----------------------
   The speed at which the game runs should be the same for both fast and slow
   PC's. However, if you wish to make the game faster or slower, you could try 
   typing the following (instead of just "sw") when you next run the game:

	sw X  (Where X is a whole number from 1 to 30000)

   The LOWER the number the FASTER the game will run.

   As a rough guide, a 286-12 machine should run perfectly using

	sw 50		to begin the game.

   and a 486DX2-66 should run about right using

	sw 500		to begin the game.

   You may have to play around with finding the best value for you.


 13) Changing the difficultly
 ----------------------------
   There are two ways to change the level of difficulty.

   Firstly, by changing which team you take charge of, you are affecting how
   easy or difficult winning will be.  For example, if you choose Durham, you
   will have a tough job on your hands!

   Secondly, by changing the speed of the game (see above) running between
   wickets will be more or less difficult. Increasing the speed will probably
   result in more of your batsmen being run out, since judging when to go for
   that tight single is that much more difficult.  Try running the game
   by typing "sw 1" (at the DOS prompt) on a Pentium IV PC!


 14) Troubleshooting / known bugs
 --------------------------------

   a) Common problem

   Almost all the problems known about this game stem from the fact that it is not
   possible to run DOS programs from Windows DOS when the executable lies in a
   folder whose path is more than 64 characters long. If you do happen to run the
   game from such a folder you will be presented with a message explaining this
   situation and how to rectify it! No prises for guessing that the solution is based
   around re-installing the game to a folder with a short path!
   
   b) "Unable To Find Data Files!"

   Check that the files exist as specified in section 6 of this document.

   The only other explanation could be if the working directory is set to something
   other than the folder which contains sw.bat. However, if you are running the
   sw.bat file from Windows (i.e. by double clicking on the sw.bat icon) then this
   should always be correct.
   
   d) Something else!

   Post your problem on the Yahoo! Group - see end of this document!


 15) How to add new teams
 ------------------------
   When you first install this game, there should be 18 team data files in the
   "teams\" subdirectory. You can add entirely new teams to this directory (up
   to 36 teams in total). The best way to do this is to copy an existing data
   file (eg essex.dat) naming it something else (eg myteam.dat). Then use a
   text editor to rename player names within the file. However, for the
   game to recognise this new team you need to add a new entry to the
   sw_teams.dat file.

   The format of this file is as follows:

	[Team1 Name],[Team1 Filename],[1 if selected, or 0 if deselected]
	[Team2 Name],[Team2 Filename],[1 if selected, or 0 if deselected]
	....
	....
	....

   (Only 8 teams should ever be selected - these are the default 8 teams.)

   Simply add the new team to the end of this file (using a text editor)
   For example, to add a team called "Superstars" with filename "super.dat"
   add the following line to the end of sw_teams.dat

	Superstars,super.dat,0

   This will not make the Superstars team one of the default 8 teams. You will
   have to use the game to change the default 8.


 16) Information on changing player data
 ----------------------------------------
   If you decide that you want to change some of the names you can easily
   change the data files in the "teams\" subdirectory, using a text editor.
   However, if you do this you must make sure that you have backed up this
   program in case anything goes wrong.


 17) Information for registered users
 ------------------------------------
   This game is no longer shareware so there is no need to register.

   Thank you very much to those (300+!) of you who registered for one or both
   of my cricket games. Your support is much appreciated.


 18) World Cup Cricket - another cricket game by Mark Carter
 -----------------------------------------------------------
   World Cup Cricket is based on international one-day matches played between
   the nine test playing countries. You choose a team and guide them through a
   series of international tournaments each with their own unique format. After
   three tournaments you play in the ultimate competition - the World Cup
   (thats assuming you qualify, of course). The format of the actual matches is
   similar to that of its predecessor, Sticky Wicket but with some additional
   features such as umpire images and advanced strategy within the match
   situation.

   These are the features:

   * Database of 225 players, 9 teams each with career statistics and batting
     and bowling abilities
   * User can take charge of any one of the 9 teams
   * Seasonal and career averages for your team
   * World Cup averages for all teams involved
   * Qualification period of 3 years where England plays in 3 out of 5
     different events. The "World Cup" is played the following year.
     (For more info on the tournaments, see 7(i) "The Main Menu"
   * Unlimited number of seasons
   * Edited highlights of the game including action shots, LBWs, run outs etc
   * Match interactivity - when to run, who to bowl, batting order, field
     placings etc
   * Your strategy can be changed throughout the match
   * Comments on the shots played and dismissals
   * Umpire decisions in response to appeals
   * Squad selection - pick a squad of 16 from 25 to take to each tournament
   * Team selection - choose 11 from 16 before each match
   * 5 different built-in field settings
   * Save / restore position after each tournament
   * Career page showing your teams records and comparisons with other teams
   * Choice of five levels of difficulty


 19) The Sticky Wicket & World Cup Cricket Website
 -------------------------------------------------
   The Sticky Wicket & World Cup Cricket website contains all the information
   you need to know about the games. You can download the latest versions of
   the games although I am not intending to write any updates.

   Point your web browser to:

   https://cricket.marcardar.com


 20) Author contact details
 --------------------------
   Please send comments & suggestions to:

   mailto:mark+cricket@marcardar.com
   https://cricket.marcardar.com

   ...but bear in mind that this game is no longer being developed...

Enjoy!							       02 November 2002